#summary Information about the Safari Driver
#labels WebDriver

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= The !SafariDriver =

The !SafariDriver is implemented as a Safari browser extension.  The driver inverts the traditional client/server relationship and communicates with the !WebDriver client using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket WebSockets].

The !SafariDriver requires Safari 5.1+

== Getting Started ==

Starting with Selenium 2.30.0, the !SafariDriver comes bundled with the Selenium server. If you wish to build the driver from source, head over to the SafariDriverInternals page.  For now, grab a copy of the [http://code.google.com/p/selenium/downloads/list Selenium jar] and add it to your classpath.  Writing a test for Safari is just as straightforward as using the FirefoxDriver:

{{{
import static org.junit.Assume.assumeTrue;

import org.openqa.selenium.By;
import org.openqa.selenium.Platform;
import org.openqa.selenium.WebDriver;
import org.openqa.selenium.safari.SafariDriver;
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.ExpectedConditions;
import org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.WebDriverWait;

import org.junit.After;
import org.junit.Before;
import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;
import org.junit.runners.JUnit4;

@RunWith(JUnit4.class)
public class SafariDriverTests {

  private WebDriver driver = null;

  private static boolean isSupportedPlatform() {
    Platform current = Platform.getCurrent();
    return Platform.MAC.is(current) || Platform.WINDOWS.is(current);
  }

  @Before
  public void createDriver() {
    assumeTrue(isSupportedPlatform());
    driver = new SafariDriver();
  }

  @After
  public void quitDriver() {
    driver.quit();
  }

  @Test
  public void shouldBeAbleToPerformAGoogleSearch() {
    driver.get("http://www.google.com");
    driver.findElement(By.name("q")).sendKeys("webdriver");
    driver.findElement(By.name("btnG")).click();
    new WebDriverWait(driver, 3)
        .until(ExpectedConditions.titleIs("webdriver - Google Search"));
  }
}
}}}

== Important System Properties ==

The following system properties (read using `System.getProperty()` and set using `System.setProperty()` in Java code, or set from the command line with `-DpropertyName=value` command line flag) are using by the !SafariDriver:

<dl>
  <dt>`webdriver.safari.driver`</dt>
  <dd>Defines the location of an existing, pre-packaged !SafariDriver extension (a `.safariextz` file) to install. This file will be copied to the install directory so it may be reused for multiple invocations.</dd>
  <dt>`webdriver.safari.noinstall`</dt>
  <dd>Set to `true` to skip installing the !SafariDriver extension (either the pre-built version included with the Selenium jar or one specified by the `webdriver.safari.driver` property. Use this option to run using a preinstalled extension.</dd>
</dl>

== Desired Capabilities ==

See the DesiredCapabilities page for [DesiredCapabilities#Safari_specific Safari specific] capability options.

== Debugging ==

Sometimes, a test may hang after sending a command to the !SafariDriver. This usually indicates something blew up. Thankfully, the !SafariDriver is quite chatty.

First open the !WebKit inspector on the page under test and check the console output. The console is cleared each time a page is loaded, so you'll only be able to see the logs for the most recent injected script. You can select the injected script and set break points inside the inspector, but it is sandboxed from the page, so you can't play with it using the inspector's REPL.

If you're using a copy of the extension [SafariDriverInternals built from source], you can also check the logs for the global page:  Develop > Show Extension Builder. Select the WebDriver extension, and click "Inspect global page." Again, the !SafariDriver is super chatty, so you should see what went wrong on the console.  You can set script break points for the injected page and interact with it using the REPL.

== Known Issues ==

All known issues with the !SafariDriver may be found on our [http://code.google.com/p/selenium/issues/list?can=1&q=browser%3DSafari+component%3DWebDriver+status%3ANew%2CAccepted%2CWorkingAsIntended%2CWontFix%2CNotFeasible&colspec=ID+Stars+Type+Status+Priority+Owner+Summary+Browser+Component&cells=tiles issue tracker].

== Reporting Bugs ==

If you think you've found a bug, please open a [http://code.google.com/p/selenium/issues/list bug] on our issue tracker.  When filing a bug, please adhere to the following guidelines:
  # Prefix your summary line with "`[SafariDriver]`."  For example: "`[SafariDriver] Unable to execute JavaScript`".
  # Include the injected script's log output (see [#Debugging above]).
  # Include the global page's log output (again, see [#Debugging above]).
  # Include a [http://www.webkit.org/quality/reduction.html reduced] test case for your bug.
  # Avoid filing duplicate bugs for the aforementioned [#Known_Issues known issues].

== !SafariDriver Internals ==

Refer to the SafariDriverInternals wiki page.